The authors dissuades West Lansburg Council from building a road along the wildlife sanctuary created for the tufted groundhogs. In doing so he further cites about the neighboring Eastern Carpenteria where the sea otter population has declined. The argument might appear cogent at first glance but is specious and rife with holes. 

Firstly, the author tries to bridge the decline of "sea otters" in Eastern Carpenteria and "tufted groundhogs" in "West Lansburg". There exists no evidence about the geography of the two areas. Furthermore, the author fails to explain how the decline of "sea otters" might have anything to do with "tufted groundhogs". The decline of the sea otters might be due to the pollution of the rivers caused by the industries in Eastern Carpenteria. More evidence on the same will strenthen or weaken the argument. 

Secondly, the incidence the author states in Eastern Carpenteria happened in 1978 which is more than 35 years from today. Ever since the time multiple developments have taken place which the author fails to take account of. There could be numerous reasons for the decline of sea otters which might or might not hold true in today. For instance, new laws proscribe industries to dump toxic material into rivers which might be the cause of decline in the number of sea otters. More evidence on the exact cause for the scarcity of sea otters will be a key factor in deciding the value of the recommendation.   

Thirdly, it is possible that the road, after being built, might actually be deleterious for the tufted groundhogs. Since the presence of road will likely increase the amount of footfall in the area, the locals might interfere with the natural habitats of the groundhogs. For instance, if there are no proper speed limits assigned to the road that is created by the sanctuary, it might result in an accident which will harm both the groundhogs and also the locals. Hence, the council will have to make sure such a case does not happen by ensuring proper traffic rules.  

In sum, while is it possible that the wildlife in West Lansburg is preserved even after constructing the road, but more evidence is needed in order to judge whether or not to take the recommendation. The argument however, as it stands, is meretricious. 